OA138: Pot, Gerrymandering, and Net Neutrality

Like millions of other Americans, Bueller was anxious to purchase one of the new Mitsusushi two-way wrist videophones, the Walk and Talk Man. He went to the Electron Store, a chain retailer of consumer electronic devices, to purchase one. The Electron Store paid $1,500 to the factory for the Walk and Talk Man and charged its customers $2,500. Each Walk and Talk Man had to be ordered from the factory in Japan. Orders were so plentiful that it was taking up to eight weeks to receive the devices after ordering.

An Electron Store salesperson filled out a pre-printed form, which had been drafted by the Electron Store's corporate legal department, in which Bueller agreed to make a $300 down payment and to pay the remaining $2,200 upon delivery of the Walk and Talk Man to him. Bueller, as is customary for consumers in these cases, signed the form without reading it. When Bueller's Walk and Talk Man arrived from Japan six weeks later, Bueller refused to accept it and demanded his $300 down payment back. The Electron store immediately sold that Walk and Talk Man for $2,500 to Calistoga, who had also ordered one from the factory on the same terms as Bueller. The Electron store then brought an action for breach of contract against Bueller, who counterclaimed for the return of his $300.

What will be the likely outcome of this action?
A. Judgment for Bueller in the amount of $300, because the purchase agreement was an unconscionable adhesion contract.
B. Judgment for the Electron Store for the incidental costs of sale, since it resold the Walk and Talk Man at no loss to itself.
C. Judgment for the Electron Store in the amount of $700, plus reasonable overhead and incidental costs, because under the circumstances, loss of profit is the only measure of damages which will make the Electron Store whole.
D. Judgment for the Electron store in the amount of $2,200 because it could sell every Walk and Talk man it could obtain from the factory.

