OA154: Stormy Daniels is a Legal Genius

When the 20-year incumbent in the State Senate district representing her city retired, Judith, a city council member, filed as a candidate for that seat. She had the support of all the relevant politicos and was considered a sure winner until Kimberly, a local television personality, entered the race. Kimberly and Judith had been friends and Judith felt betrayed by Kimberly's candidacy, believing that Kimberly was using her name recognition to rob Judith of a position she'd been working towards for 15 years. The campaign was consequently a bitter one. Judith doing everything she could to portray Kimberly as an intellectual lightweight who was more concerned about sound bites than issues. And Kimberly painting Judith as an old style politico with plenty of favors owed and sleazy connections to unsavory elements of the power structure.

In an attempt to lower the hostility level, local community leaders organized a charity barbecue one weekend and invited both Judith and Kimberly to be celebrity chefs. The candidates were placed at barbecue grills on a raised dais before the large crowd where they were each supposed to cook a mess of ribs using their own special barbecue sauces. While preparing to cook, Judith was using a large chef's knife to trim the ribs she intended to barbecue. The slab of meat slipped from her grasp and fell to the floor. Judith swung rapidly towards the meat and uttered a sincere damn when she saw she could not save it from the filthy floor. Kimberly turned at the same moment and, seeing Judith crouched, holding a large knife apparently pointed at her, and appearing very angry, Kimberly believed that Judith was trying to kill her. Kimberly grabbed her own chef's knife and plunged it into Judith's neck.

At Kimberly's trial for the murder of Judith, Kimberly should be found guilty of:

A. No crime, because Kimberly was justified in killing Judith, whom she reasonably believed was about to kill her.
B. No crime, because Kimberly was excused in killing Judith, whom she reasonably believed was about to kill her.
C. Voluntary manslaughter, because Kimberly unreasonably but in good faith believed that Judith was about to kill her.
D. Murder, because the bitterness between the candidates demonstrates that Kimberly killed Judith with malice aforethought.



