OA532: OK I'll Bite What is the Debt Ceiling

A man lives in a remote area in the Upper Peninsula of State A. Since he lives so far from town, he prefers to make one large trip to the local convenience store each month to purchase all of his supplies. During the winter, the area gets so much snow that the roads are often un-passable by vehicle. Thus, the man decided he wanted to purchase a state-of-the-art snowmobile that would allow him to transport his supplies back and forth from town. Since the best deals are during the summer, the man went to purchase his snowmobile in July. He asked the salesperson to show him "the best snowmobile you've got." The salesperson took him over to a large snowmobile with red and white stripes. The salesperson said, "I think this is exactly what you're looking for!" The box advertised that the snowmobile could carry up to 200 pounds. Impressed, the man replied "I'll take one! But can I get it one with blue and black stripes?" The salesperson readily agreed and said it would be delivered in one week.

The correct model snowmobile with blue and black stripes was indeed delivered on time the next week. The man was very happy and accepted the snowmobile. When the first snowfall hit in November, the man tried to take it to the store to purchase his supplies. On his way back, with 100 pounds of supplies on the snowmobile, the snowmobile kept stalling due to the weight of the supplies. He had to call for help because the snowmobile could not get him home. When he called the store, he was told that there was a problem with the bearings in that model that prevented it from operating correctly when carrying heavy loads. However, it still works properly in every other scenario. The man asked for his money back.

A. Yes, because the man can sue under the theory of implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose.
B. Yes, because the man properly revoked his acceptance of the snowmobile.
C. No, because a perfect tender delivery was made and the man did not properly reject the snowmobile.
D. No, because the man is still able to use the snowmobile; he simply cannot carry supplies on it.

