OA261: Sentencing Paul Manafort

A landowner lawfully subdivided his land into 10 large lots. The recorded subdivision plan imposed no restrictions on any of the 10 lots. Within two months after recording the plan, the landowner conveyed Lot 1 to a buyer, by a deed that contained no restrictions on the lot's use. There was then a lull in sales. Two years later, the real estate market in the state had generally improved, and during the next six months, the landowner sold and conveyed eight of the remaining nine lots. In each of the eight deeds of conveyance, the landowner included the following language: "It is a term and condition of this conveyance, which shall be covenant running with the land for the benefit of each of the 10 lots [with an appropriate reference to the recorded subdivision plan] that for 15 years from the date of recording of the plan, no use shall be made of the premises herein conveyed except for single-family residential purposes." The buyer of Lot 1 had actual knowledge of what the landowner had done. The landowner included the quoted language in part because the municipality had amended its zoning ordinance a year earlier to permit professional offices in any residential zone. Shortly after the landowner's most recent sale, when he owned only one unsold lot, the buyer of Lot 1 constructed a one-story house on Lot 1 and then conveyed Lot 1 to 8 doctor. The deed to the doctor contained no reference to any restriction on the use of Lot 1. The doctor applied for an appropriate certificate of occupancy to enable her to use a pat of the house on Lot 1 as a medical office. The landowner, on behalf of himself a the owner of the unsold lot, and on behalf of the other lot owners, sued to enjoin the doctor from carrying out her plans and to impose the quoted restriction on Lot 1.

Who is likely to prevail?

A. The doctor, because Lot 1 was conveyed without the restrictive covenant in the deed to the first buyer and the subsequent deed to the doctor.
B. The doctor, because zoning ordinances override private restrictive covenants as a matter of public policy.
C. The landowner, because the doctor, as a successor in interest to the first buyer, is estopped from denying that Lot 1 remains subject to the zoning ordinance as it existed when the landowner conveyed Lot 1 to the first buyer.
D. The landowner, because with the first buyer's knowledge of the facts, Lot 1 became incorporated into a common scheme.

